README file for using Google Earth Engine to make the Normalized Friction Wind Speed as described in Chappell and Webb (2016) DOI: 10.1016/j.aeolia.2016.09.006
Garmong, Sylvia (rgarmong@albany.edu)


These files are very much the setup for both processing & exploration that occurred during my summer internship, so likely the main file you want for reproducing this is the "FricType" files well as the Datafill.ipynb (python notebook -- if unfamiliar these generally only run in Jupyter notebooks though the code can be copied out of them into a normal python file).
FricType is currently set up to only display one of the variables within the interactive maps for a short time frame, but with uncommenting lines can easily be setup to output all summery statistics for a given domain (changing the domain asset within "domainShapeFile" on line 11 to a given shapefile will clip the domain to said shapefile). 
The general process for using these scripts would be to do initial processing on google earth engine -- FricType will take in the required Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution data from MODIS as well as the band 1 black sky albedo from MODIS. These both create the Normalized Friction Windspeed. The data is QAed and masked by NDSI for snow, as well as masked by land use to not include locations marked as water. Running the export part of the script will then push the created geotiff files (google earth engine will break this up into many files) to google drive. It can then be downloaded. After this you would load the files by changing the folder name to the download location of the normalized friction windspeed data. It’s important to know that data fill assumes you have reflectance and igmb land use data on the same grid & domain as the normalized friction wind speed. The scripts LandmaskExport & reflectance maker will create this if given the proper shapefile.
Datafill.ipynb will fill missing data locations using a combination of identification of lake beds with a prescribed value & local mean interpolation that fills iteratively.
